README.md, before:

<img src=".github/assets/banner.webp" alt="SafeHaven Banner"/>

An open-source project to create a map of safe spaces for people in need.

## Deploy

We provide docker images to deploy SafeHaven. You can find the releases in the 
[packages view of the SafeHavenMaps organisation](https://github.com/SafeHavenMaps/safehaven/pkgs/container/safehaven).

### Pre-requisites

- A PostgreSQL server with PostGIS

### Prepare the database

Create a database:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE safehaven;
```

SafeHaven leverages PostgreSQL's full text search capabilities. You can help the indexer by setting a locale on the database:

```sql
ALTER DATABASE safehaven SET default_text_search_config = 'pg_catalog.french';
```

## Configure

SafeHaven is initialized with a default user named `admin` with the password `safehaven`. You should change this password as soon as possible.

The administration panel will provide you with the ability to create new users and manage the application. A wiki will be available soon to help you with the configuration.

### Start the docker container:

```bash
docker run -d \ 
  -e SAFEHAVEN_DATABASE__URL="postgresql://user:password@host/safehaven" \  # Set the database path
  -e SAFEHAVEN_DATABASE__POOL_SIZE="5" \                                    # Set the number of connections to the database
  -e SAFEHAVEN_SECURE_COOKIE="true" \                                       # Activate if you have a reverse proxy with HTTPS.
  -e SAFEHAVEN_TOKEN_SECRET="SecretForValidatingAngSigningTokens" \         # Set a secret that will be used to sign sessions
  ghcr.io/safehavenmaps/safehaven:latest                                    # Change latest to the latest version, check the releases
```

## Current status

This project is in beta. Expect bug.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from everyone. To spin up a development environment, follow these steps:

**Pre-requisites:**

- A working installation of Nix
  - Supports of Nix Flakes is required
- A PostgreSQL database server with PostGIS extension enabled

**Steps:**

- Clone the repository
- Run `nix develop` to enter a development environment
- Adjust the flake.nix variable to match your database database
- Inside the `backend` folder
  - Run `sqlx migrate run` to create the database schema
- Inside the `frontend` folder
  - Run `npm install` to install the dependencies
- Inside the root folder:
  - Run `regen_api` to regenerate the API
  - Run `start_dev_env` to start the stack using process-compose

Commit message:

backend: randomly generate the initial admin password

README.md, after:

<img src=".github/assets/banner.webp" alt="SafeHaven Banner"/>

An open-source project to create a map of safe spaces for people in need.

## Deploy

We provide docker images to deploy SafeHaven. You can find the releases in the 
[packages view of the SafeHavenMaps organisation](https://github.com/SafeHavenMaps/safehaven/pkgs/container/safehaven).

### Pre-requisites

- A PostgreSQL server with PostGIS

### Prepare the database

Create a database:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE safehaven;
```

SafeHaven leverages PostgreSQL's full text search capabilities. You can help the indexer by setting a locale on the database:

```sql
ALTER DATABASE safehaven SET default_text_search_config = 'pg_catalog.french';
```

## Configure

SafeHaven is initialized with a default user named `admin` with a random password, which can be retrieved from backend logs.

The administration panel will provide you with the ability to create new users and manage the application. A wiki will be available soon to help you with the configuration.

### Start the docker container:

```bash
docker run -d \ 
  -e SAFEHAVEN_DATABASE__URL="postgresql://user:password@host/safehaven" \  # Set the database path
  -e SAFEHAVEN_DATABASE__POOL_SIZE="5" \                                    # Set the number of connections to the database
  -e SAFEHAVEN_SECURE_COOKIE="true" \                                       # Activate if you have a reverse proxy with HTTPS.
  -e SAFEHAVEN_TOKEN_SECRET="SecretForValidatingAngSigningTokens" \         # Set a secret that will be used to sign sessions
  ghcr.io/safehavenmaps/safehaven:latest                                    # Change latest to the latest version, check the releases
```

## Current status

This project is in beta. Expect bug.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from everyone. To spin up a development environment, follow these steps:

**Pre-requisites:**

- A working installation of Nix
  - Supports of Nix Flakes is required
- A PostgreSQL database server with PostGIS extension enabled

**Steps:**

- Clone the repository
- Run `nix develop` to enter a development environment
- Adjust the flake.nix variable to match your database database
- Inside the `backend` folder
  - Run `sqlx migrate run` to create the database schema
- Inside the `frontend` folder
  - Run `npm install` to install the dependencies
- Inside the root folder:
  - Run `regen_api` to regenerate the API
  - Run `start_dev_env` to start the stack using process-compose
